Back to the [Table of Contents](README.md)

---

# Introduction

Welcome to the documentation for the OCPI.Net package! This documentation is organized into several [sections](README.md), each covering a different aspect of the package. In this section, we'll provide an overview of the package and its benefits, as well as a guide to getting started with OCPI.Net.

Once you're familiar with the basics, you can move on to [Getting started with OCPI.Net](#getting-started-with-ocpinet) to learn how to install the package and start using it in your project.

You can refer to the [Architecture](2.architecture.md) section for an overview of the package's architecture and how it works under the hood. This section also covers how the package integrates with Asp.Net Core.

We hope you find this documentation helpful, and we welcome your feedback and contributions to the project!

## Overview of the OCPI.Net package

The OCPI.Net package is a .NET implementation for the the Open Charge Point Interface (OCPI) protocol, which is used for communication between electric vehicle charging stations and charging station operators.

Make sure to check out this [Sample application](sample/OCPI.Net.Sample) for a working example of how to use the package.


## Benefits of using OCPI.Net

- ### Seamless OCPI Protocol Implementation
    The package provides a comprehensive collection of contract models and validation tools that allow you to implement the OCPI protocol with ease. The package contains all necessary functionality to easily implement OCPI using Asp.Net Core.

- ### Easy to Use
    The package is designed to be easy to use, with a simple and intuitive API that allows you to quickly get up and running with OCPI. The package also contains a collection of examples that demonstrate how to use the package in different scenarios.

- ### Unrestricted Domain Flexibility
    The package allows you to integrate your specific requirements without limitations. This adaptable approach ensures your implementation perfectly aligns with your business needs and unique use cases, while still maintaining compliance with the OCPI protocol.

## Getting started with OCPI.Net

1. To get started with OCPI.Net, you'll need to install the package using NuGet. You can do this by running the following command:

    ```
    dotnet add package OCPI.Net
    ```

2. In order to start using the package in your project, you would have to add all required OCPI services in your `Program.cs`:

    ```csharp
    builder.AddOcpi();
    ```

3. Enjoy the power of OCPI.Net!

    You will find more info on how to use the package's functionality in the later sections of this documentation.

---

Next topic:
[Architecture](2.architecture.md)
