Previous topic:
[Architecture](2.architecture.md)

---

## Implementation

You can always refer to the [Sample application](/sample/OCPI.Net.Sample) for a working example of how to use the package.

### How to implement OCPI modules using OCPI.Net

Apply `OcpiEndpoint` attribute to your module controllers to specify their OCPI versions. The package will perform an automated scan of your controllers and generate a list of supported OCPI versions for each module.

```csharp
[OcpiEndpoint(OcpiModule.Credentials, "Receiver", "2.2.1")]
[Route("2.2.1/credentials")]
public class OcpiCredentialsController : OcpiController
{
    // Implement your module methods here
}
```

> ⚠️
> The OCPI.Net Versioning implementation requires your OCPI endpoint routes to start with the ocpi version number. For example, if your OCPI version is `2.2.1`, your endpoints should start with `2.2.1/`. This allows the package to determine which routes are intended for which OCPI version.

Refer to the [Versioning](4.versioning.md) section for more information on OCPI module versioning.

Use the `OcpiOk` method of the `OcpiController` class to generate OCPI-compliant responses:

```csharp
[HttpGet]
public IActionResult Get()
{
    var result = new OcpiCredentials()
    {
        Token = "Requesting-Platform's-Credentials-Token",
        Url = "Your-Service's-Versions-Endpoint-Url"
    };
    return OcpiOk(result);
}
```

Use `OcpiOk` with a `PageResult<T>` to generate an OCPI-compliant paginated response. See more: [Pagination](6.pagination.md)

### Customizing the package to meet specific business needs

The package is designed to be as flexible as possible, allowing you to implement OCPI modules in any way you see fit. The package contains a number of services which are used to perform various tasks such as validating incoming requests, generating responses, and handling errors.

You are not forced to use any of these services, and you can implement your own services if you wish. The package also allows you to override some of the default services with your own custom implementations.

Refer to the [Architecture](2.architecture.md) section for more information on the package's internal architecture.

---

Next topic:
[OCPI Contracts](4.contracts.md)
